# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

## [unreleased]

### Features

#### Add support for AVX512.
- When the `avx512f` target feature is enabled
- the `SimdBlock` is set to 64 bytes.


### Reliability

#### Enable local simd-size-matrix tests.
- One can use the `test_simd_sizes.py` script
- to run the simd-size test matrix locally.

## [0.0.4] - 2022-05-25

### Features

#### Support `sse` target feature.
- When the `sse` target feature is enabled
on x86/x86_64 the `SimdBlock` size is 16 bytes,
unless a target feature with a larger vector is also enabled.

Related: [#18](https://github.com/V0ldek/aligners/issues/18)
### Reliability

#### Miri test on windows targets.

#### Added `simd_alignment_test`.
- Test whether the size of `SimdBlock` agrees with the expected one
for a given target.

#### Added simd-size-matrix test.
- Use `simd_alignment_test` to check whether `SimdBlock` sizes
remain consistent across targets.

## [0.0.3] - 2022-05-18


### Bug Fixes

#### Impl of `Default` returning unaligned ptrs.
- Implementations of `Default` for
-  `AlignedBytes`
-  `&AlignedSlice`
-  `&mut AlignedSlice`
- were incorrect by using `NonNull::dangling` as the pointer.
- That pointer need not be aligned to the specified `Alignment`.
- This was fixed by using std's `dangling` implementation tweaked to
- the required alignment, while still not allocating.

<tiny>Related: [#11](https://github.com/V0ldek/aligners/issues/11) </tiny>

### Reliability

#### Allow miri symbolic-alignment-check.
- Miri's `-Zmiri-symbolic-alignment-check` breaks `align_offset` to always return `usize::MAX` (that is by design), so we need to fallback to regular cast-then-modulo alignment check for tests when running under Miri.

<tiny>Related: [#12](https://github.com/V0ldek/aligners/issues/12) </tiny>

## [0.0.2] - 2022-05-17

### Features

#### Added `alignment::TwoTo<N>`.

<tiny>Related: [#5](https://github.com/V0ldek/aligners/issues/5) </tiny>

## [0.0.1] - 2022-05-17

### Features

#### Initial API.
-  Alignment types driven by the `alignment` module.
-  `AlignedBytes` -- aligned container
-  `AlignedSlice` -- type guarantee on alignment of `&[u8]`
-  `AlignedBlockIterator` -- iterate aligned blocks of a slice.
-  Quality of life implementations of `Deref` and `std::cmp` traits.


### Reliability

#### Automatically generate changelog (#1).

<tiny>Related: [#1](https://github.com/V0ldek/aligners/issues/1) </tiny>

#### Use cargo-hack for feature powerset.

<tiny>Related: [#3](https://github.com/V0ldek/aligners/issues/3) </tiny>

<!-- generated by git-cliff -->
